Hello and welcome back to the course and tableaux in the British tutorial we learn how to pivot our
daughter.
And today we will look at a feature which was introduced in Tableau 9 which is called split.
So this split feature allows you to split one column into multiple columns and to be frank it's not
very applicable in our specific case because our columns look as they should.
But I would just want to show you this feature because I think it can be very handy when you have certain
types of data.
For instance if you have customer data then you might have a column which has their full name but you
want to split it into first name and last name.
And so that can be easily done and we'll just have a look at an example with this column we'll be using
the regions column to perform this example even though we don't really we actually don't need to do
this in the specific dataset but nevertheless just for argument's sake we'll pretend that this is a
name and surname and we will know what we want to split out the surname out of this data.
So let's assume that the last words.
So that comes after a space in this case America is the surname and everything before that is the first
name.
And you just want to split out the last the surname.
So in this case would be e in this case are Americans on.
So you can really easily do that.
All you have to do is once again click this dropdown select split and then say what who.
What's a word you want to split off.
So you want to split off the last one word into a column and use the separator which is in our case
is going to be a space click OK.
And there you go.
So you've got you've got the last word separated separated in song into its own column.
So here you've got a once again if there is only one where you'll take that word.
But in this case it's got America.
This case has got e and so on.
So let's do one on one more you can split
you can split what you can do is you can split all words but find all the words are separated by spaces
and we'll find all the words.
So here you go is put Europe new members into Europe new members Russia Turkey and other Europe Russia
Turkey and other Europe.
So as you can see that's a very powerful feature.
If your daughter is not prepared in the sense that it's got the name and surname for example in one
column and that can be very useful as well not only will excel files like Excel it's not that hard to
actually go into Excel and perform that split yourself here but sometimes you might be getting data
from a database or from other locations where you cannot make adjustments so before you if you do want
to make adjustments before you send it in to Tableau you would have to export it into Excel or some
other software make adjustments to their net taken and Tableau while you don't have to do that anymore.
Now you can just do all of this in tableau.
So there you go.
That's how to use the split function.
And next time we will look at metadata.
I look forward to seeing you on that tutorial and until then happy analyzing.